a lot of people on the internet
complaining or pointing at others and
saying this guy's natural and that guy's
not natural. And I'm here to tell you,
none of you are natural. Absolutely
nobody. And here's why.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering. I speak on
all things physical medicine, sometimes
sports performance, a lot of athletics,
and what I really try and focus on is
helping out individuals who do not
respond well to standard approaches to
fitness, which is almost everybody. I
think fitness really caters to the
genetic outliers and doesn't provide
much for the rest of us. That's where I
come in. So today I want to talk about
more philosophy than necessarily
science. You see a lot of people on the
internet complaining or pointing at
others and saying this guy's natural and
that guy's not natural. And I'm here to
tell you none of you are natural.
Absolutely nobody. And here's why. Do
you use light bulbs in your house? Well,
if so, you're altering your circadian
rhythm. But it's okay because we can
correct that by having caffeine in the
morning. So that's not natural. I mean,
unless you live in a place where coffee
beans grow, which I'm guessing you
don't. So I'll take it to the more
obvious reality. When somebody's not
natural, the implication is this
individual is using anabolic chemicals
to enhance muscularity, low body fat,
whatever. And yeah, obviously when you
look at somebody uh like Ronnie Coleman,
okay, so he was I might get his stats
wrong, but I think like 510 and on stage
maybe 300 lb or something like that. Not
natural and pretty pretty apparent
though his first bodybuilding show he
was natural or at least I believe him
when when he talks about that. But the
entire conversation I I just find sort
of funny because there's many shades in
the middle that we're even aware of.
Like I have testosterone replacement
therapy. I was prescribed that because I
got in a bad rugby hit years and years
ago before I turned 30 and that
destroyed one testicle and damaged the
other one. So, like I was told if I
didn't get on TRT, I might have a
cardiac event in my 30s. So, like, wait,
testosterone is improves the health of
your heart if you have low testosterone?
I didn't know that at the time. So, I
think there's a gray area that most of
us are in. And I think other than just
sort of the jealous guy saying, "Oh, you
know, somebody's he does this and he's
gonna die at 40 or whatever," here's uh
a study that you need to know about.
Turns out that uh statistically
people who use cycles of anabolic
steroids
live longer than people who eat a
standard American diet.
You heard that right. Now, what else do
we know about people who take anabolic
steroids? Well, their nutrition is
probably pretty good. Otherwise, they're
not going to get results. They also
exercise, which is really healthy. Also,
the two greatest drivers of long life
are high levels of strength and low
levels of body fat. So, the natural
versus not natural. Now, I'm not
recommending doing cycles of steroids.
It's a bad idea because there are
negative health implications. But
also,
don't make natural versus not natural
the only thing you focus on just because
I I think it's just a waste of time and
it's just a stupid conversation. Here's
another great example. Before Ompic came
out, I knew a lot of people who had
dropped 100 plus pounds and boy was I
proud of them and I told them they were
great. It's very difficult to do and I
acknowledge their achievement. Now that
that peptide has been released for wide
usage,
I call it a peptide, not a drug, by the
way. It's like if somebody lost 100 lbs
using ompic or a GLP agonist, and then
they figured out a way to get off it.
This is what Lizo did. I'm not not a fan
at all, but I kind of respect what she
said because what happened is she got on
it. It forced her to clean up her diet,
built better habits, she went off of it
and kept the better habits.
So now she says because she doesn't eat
carbohydrates, she doesn't feel hungry
anymore. So she still has the benefit of
oamic, but it's caused by her improved
nutrition.
So I think that's incredibly
interesting. And also like you're not
going to shame somebody for losing
weight with a GLP agonist if they got
off it like you would I don't know a
steroid user. I don't know. I don't
shame anybody. So it's very difficult
for me to determine. And also I think a
lot of the shaming that goes on is
really just jealousydriven. But I just
don't think there is a good enough
definition of what natural is or what
natural is not. What you're really just
seeing is people who have not achieved
going insane because they have not
achieved. If this video helped you, I
want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.